## 6. DARE TO DISAGREE | MARGARET HEFFERNAN

Translator: Thu-Huong Ha Reviewer: Morton Bast In Oxford in the 1950s, there was a fantastic doctor, who was very unusual, named Alice Stewart. And Alice was unusual partly because, of course, she was a woman, which was pretty rare in the 1950s. And she was brilliant, she was one of the, at the time, the youngest Fellow to be elected to the Royal College of Physicians. She was unusual too because she continued to work after she got married, after she had kids, and even after she got divorced and was a single parent, she continued her medical work. And she was unusual because she was really interested in a new science, the emerging field of epidemiology, the study of patterns in disease. But like every scientist, she appreciated that to make her mark, what she needed to do was find a hard problem and solve it. The hard problem that Alice chose was the rising incidence of childhood cancers. Most disease is correlated with poverty, but in the case of childhood cancers, the children who were dying seemed mostly to come from affluent families. So, what, she wanted to know, could explain this anomaly? Now, Alice had trouble getting funding for her research. In the end, she got just 1,000 pounds from the Lady Tata Memorial prize. And that meant she knew she only had one shot at collecting her data. Now, she had no idea what to look for. This really was a needle in a haystack sort of search, so she asked everything she could think of. Had the children eaten boiled sweets? Had they consumed colored drinks? Did they eat fish and chips? Did they have indoor or outdoor plumbing? What time of life had they started school? And when her carbon copied questionnaire started to come back, one thing and one thing only jumped out with the statistical clarity of a kind that most scientists can only dream of. By a rate of two to one, the children who had died had had mothers who had been X-rayed when pregnant. Now that finding flew in the face of conventional wisdom. held that everything was safe up to a point, a threshold. It flew in the face of conventional wisdom, which was huge enthusiasm for the cool new technology of that age, which was the X-ray machine. And it flew in the face of doctors' idea of themselves, which was as people who helped patients, they didn't harm them. Nevertheless, Alice Stewart rushed to publish her preliminary findings in The Lancet in 1956. People got very excited, there was talk of the Nobel Prize, and Alice really was in a big hurry to try to study all the cases of childhood cancer she could find before they disappeared. In fact, she need not have hurried. It was fully 25 years before the British and medical -- British and American medical establishments abandoned the practice of X-raying pregnant women. The data was out there, it was open, it was freely available, but nobody wanted to know. A child a week was dying, but nothing changed. Openness alone can't drive change. So for 25 years Alice Stewart had a very big fight on her hands. So, how did she know that she was right? Well, she had a fantastic model for thinking. She worked with a statistician named George Kneale, and George was pretty much everything that Alice wasn't. So, Alice was very outgoing and sociable, and George was a recluse. Alice was very warm, very empathetic with her patients. George frankly preferred numbers to people. But he said this fantastic thing about their working relationship. He said, "My job is to prove Dr. Stewart wrong." He actively sought disconfirmation. Different ways of looking at her models, at her statistics, different ways of crunching the data in order to disprove her. He saw his job as creating conflict around her theories. Because it was only by not being able to prove that she was wrong, that George could give Alice the confidence she needed to know that she was right. It's a fantastic model of collaboration -- thinking partners who aren't echo chambers. I wonder how many of us have, or dare to have, such collaborators. Alice and George were very good at conflict. They saw it as thinking. So what does that kind of constructive conflict require? Well, first of all, it requires that we find people who are very different from ourselves. That means we have to resist the neurobiological drive, which means that we really prefer people mostly like ourselves, and it means we have to seek out people with different backgrounds, different disciplines, different ways of thinking and different experience, and find ways to engage with them. That requires a lot of patience and a lot of energy. And the more I've thought about this, the more I think, really, that that's a kind of love. Because you simply won't commit that kind of energy and time if you don't really care. And it also means that we have to be prepared to change our minds. Alice's daughter told me that every time Alice went head-to-head with a fellow scientist, they made her think and think and think again. "My mother," she said, "My mother didn't enjoy a fight, but she was really good at them." So it's one thing to do that in a one-to-one relationship. But it strikes me that the biggest problems we face, many of the biggest disasters that we've experienced, mostly haven't come from individuals, they've come from organizations, some of them bigger than countries, many of them capable of affecting hundreds, thousands, even millions of lives. So how do organizations think? Well, for the most part, they don't. And that isn't because they don't want to, it's really because they can't. And they can't because the people inside of them are too afraid of conflict. In surveys of European and American executives, fully 85 percent of them acknowledged that they had issues or concerns at work that they were afraid to raise. Afraid of the conflict that that would provoke, afraid to get embroiled in arguments that they did not know how to manage, and felt that they were bound to lose. Eighty-five percent is a really big number. It means that organizations mostly can't do what George and Alice so triumphantly did. They can't think together. And it means that people like many of us, who have run organizations, and gone out of our way to try to find the very best people we can, mostly fail to get the best out of them. So how do we develop the skills that we need? Because it does take skill and practice, too. If we aren't going to be afraid of conflict, we have to see it as thinking, and then we have to get really good at it. So, recently, I worked with an executive named Joe, and Joe worked for a medical device company. And Joe was very worried about the device that he was working on. He thought that it was too complicated and he thought that its complexity created margins of error that could really hurt people. He was afraid of doing damage to the patients he was trying to help. But when he looked around his organization, nobody else seemed to be at all worried. So, he didn't really want to say anything. After all, maybe they knew something he didn't. Maybe he'd look stupid. But he kept worrying about it, and he worried about it so much that he got to the point where he thought the only thing he could do was leave a job he loved. In the end, Joe and I found a way for him to raise his concerns. And what happened then is what almost always happens in this situation. It turned out everybody had exactly the same questions and doubts. So now Joe had allies. They could think together. And yes, there was a lot of conflict and debate and argument, but that allowed everyone around the table to be creative, to solve the problem, and to change the device. Joe was what a lot of people might think of as a whistle-blower, except that like almost all whistle-blowers, he wasn't a crank at all, he was passionately devoted to the organization and the higher purposes that that organization served. But he had been so afraid of conflict, until finally he became more afraid of the silence. And when he dared to speak, he discovered much more inside himself and much more give in the system than he had ever imagined. And his colleagues don't think of him as a crank. They think of him as a leader. So, how do we have these conversations more easily and more often? Well, the University of Delft requires that its PhD students have to submit five statements that they're prepared to defend. It doesn't really matter what the statements are about, what matters is that the candidates are willing and able to stand up to authority. I think it's a fantastic system, but I think leaving it to PhD candidates is far too few people, and way too late in life. I think we need to be teaching these skills to kids and adults at every stage of their development, if we want to have thinking organizations and a thinking society. The fact is that most of the biggest catastrophes that we've witnessed rarely come from information that is secret or hidden. It comes from information that is freely available and out there, but that we are willfully blind to, because we can't handle, don't want to handle, the conflict that it provokes. But when we dare to break that silence, or when we dare to see, and we create conflict, we enable ourselves and the people around us to do our very best thinking. Open information is fantastic, open networks are essential. But the truth won't set us free until we develop the skills and the habit and the talent and the moral courage to use it. Openness isn't the end. It's the beginning. (Applause)

## 7. 5 STEPS TO DESIGNING THE LIFE YOU WANT  | BILL BURNETT | TEDXSTANFORD

Transcriber: Leonardo Silva Reviewer: Cristina Bufi Poecksteiner, M.A. Hello, everyone. I'm here to help you design your life. We're going to use the technique of design thinking. is something we've been working on at the d.School and in the School of Engineering for over 50 years, and it's an innovation methodology, works on products, works on services. But I think the most interesting design problem is your life! So that's what we're going to talk about. I want to just make sure everybody knows: this is my buddy Dave Evans, his face. Dave and I are the co-authors of the book, and he is the guy who helped me co-found the Life Design Lab at Stanford. So what do we do in the Life Design Lab? Well, we teach the class that helps to figure out what you want to be when you grow up. Now, I'm going to give you the first reframe. Designers love reframes. How many of you hope you never grow up and lose that child-like curiosity that drives everything you do? Raise your hand. Right! Who wants to grow up? I mean, we've been talking about curiosity in almost every one of these talks. And so I'd like to reframe this as: we say we teach the class that helps you figure out what you want to grow into next, as this life of yours, this amazing design of yours, unfolds. So, design thinking is what we teach and it's a set of mindsets, it's how designers think. You know, we've been taught probably in the university to be so skeptical realists, rationalists, but that's not very useful as a mindset when you're trying to do something new, something no one's ever done before. So we say you start with curiosity and you lean into what you're curious about. We say you reframe problems because most of the time we find people are working on the wrong problems and they have a wonderful solution to something that doesn't work anyway. So, what's the point of working on the wrong thing? We say radical collaboration because the answer's out in the world with other people. That's where your experience of your life will be. We want to be mindful of our process. There are times in the design process when you want lots of ideas, and there are times when you really want to converge test some things, prototype some things, you want to be good at that. And the other is biased action. Now, you know, I'll say that we think no plan for your life will survive first contact with reality. (Laughter) Reality has the tendency to throw little things at us that we weren't expecting, sometimes good things, sometimes bad. So we say: just have a biased action, try stuff. Why? Why did we start this class? I've been in office hours for a long, long time with my students. I've been teaching here for a while. Dave as well. He was teaching over that community college, in Berkeley, for a while. (Laughter) And - I'm sorry, I'm sorry, it's a Stanford TEDx. But we notice that people get stuck. People really get stuck and then they don't know what to do and they don't seem to have any tools for getting unstuck. Designers get stuck all the time. I signed up to be a designer, which means I'm going to work on something I've never done, every day, and I get stuck and unstuck, stuck and unstuck, all the time. We also noticed as we went out and talked to folks who are not just our students, but people in mid-career and encore careers, that people have a bunch of beliefs which psychologists label "dysfunctional beliefs," things they believe that are true that actually aren't true, and it holds them back. I'll give you three. First one is: "What's your passion? Tell me your passion and I'll tell you what you need to do." Now, if you actually have one of these things, these passions - you knew at two you wanted to be a doctor, you knew at seven you wanted to be a clown at Cirque du Soleil, and now you are one, that's awesome. But we're a sort of research space here at Stanford, so we went over to the Center for the Study of Adolescence, which by the way now goes up to 27 - (Laughter) and met with Bill Damon, one of our colleagues, a fantastic guy. He studied this question and it turns out less than 20% of the people have any one single identifiable passion in their lives. We hate a methodology which says, "OK, come to the front of the line. You have a passion? Oh, you don't? Oh, I'm sorry. When you have one, come on back and we'll help you with that." It's terrible, eight out of 10 people say, "I have lots of things I'm interested in." So this is not an organizing principle for your search or your design. The second one is, "Well, you should know by now, right? Don't you know where you're going? If you don't know, you're late." (Laughter) Now, what are you late for, exactly? I'm not quite sure. But you know, there's a meta-narrative in the culture and when I was growing up: by 25, you're supposed to maybe have a relationship, maybe have gotten married and started to get the family together. When I talk to my millennial students, they'll say, "Oh, that's got to be like 30 or something," because they can't imagine, anything past, like, 22, but 30 is a long way out. But we know that now these people are forming their lives much more fluidly, they are staying in a lot more dynamic motion between about 22 and 35, and so this notion that you're late is really kind of like, "Well, you should have figured this out by now." Dave and I don't "should" on anybody. In the book or in the class, we don't believe in "should." We just think, "Alright, you are whatever you are. Let's start from where you are. You're not late for anything." But the one we really don't like is: "Are you being the best possible version of you?" (Laughter) "I mean, because you're not settling for something that's less than the best, because this is Stanford. Obviously we all are going to be the best." Well, this implies that, one, there's a singular best; two, that it's a linear thing, and life is anything but linear; and three, it kind of comes from this business notion, there's an old business saying, "Good is the enemy of better, better is the enemy of best," and you always want to do your best in business. But if there isn't one singular best, then our reframe is, "The unattainable best is the enemy of all the available betters, because there are many, many versions of you that you could play out, all of which would result in a well-designed life." So I'm going to give you three ideas from design thinking - five ideas, excuse me - That says five, doesn't it? Yeah. Five ideas from design thinking. And people who've read the book or taken the class have written back to us and said, "Hey, these were the most useful, these were the most doable, they were the most helpful." And we're human-centered designers, so we want to be helpful. The first one is this notion of connecting the dots. The number one reason people take our class and we hear read the book is they say, "You know, I want my life to be meaningful, I want it to be purposeful, I want it to add up to something." So, we looked in the positive psychology literature and in the design literature, and it turns out that there's who you are, there's what you believe and there's what you do in the world, and if you can make a connection between these three things, if you can make that a coherent story, you will experience your life as meaningful. The increase in meaning-making comes from connecting the dots. So we do two things. We ask people: "Write a work view. What's your theory of work? Not the job you want, but why do you work? What's it for? What's work in service of?" Once you have that, 250 words, then - this one's a little harder to get short, "What's the meaning of life? What's the big picture? Why are you here? What is your faith or your view of the world?" When you can connect your life view and your work view together, in a coherent way, you start to experience your life as meaningful. That's the idea number one. Idea number two: people get stuck and you've got to be careful because we can reframe almost anything, but there's a class of problems that people get stuck on that are really, really bad problems. We call them gravity problems. Essentially, they're something you cannot change. Now, I know you have a friend and you've been having coffee with this friend for a while, and they're stuck. They don't like their boss, their partner, their job, there's something that they don't like. But nothing's happening, right? Nothing's happening with them. If Dave were here he'd say, "Look, you can't solve a problem you're not willing to have." so if you've got a gravity problem and you're simply not willing to work on it, then it's just a circumstance in your life. And the only thing we know to do with gravity problems is to accept. In the design thinking chart, you start with empathy, then you redefine the problem, you come up with lots of ideas, then you prototype and test things, but that only works if it's a problem you're willing to work on. The first thing to do is accept and once you've accepted this as gravity problem - "I can't change it. You know, this is a company, the company is a family-run company and the name of the founder is on the door and if you're not in the family, you can't be the president." You're right, you can't! So, now you have to decide what you want to do. Is that a circumstance that you can reframe and work in, or do you need to do something else? So be really careful about gravity problems because they're pernicious and they really get in the way. But back to this idea of multiples, I do a little thought experiment with my students, and I say, you know, "The physicists up in SLAC have kind of demonstrated this multiverse thing might be real." You've heard of this, that there are multiple parallel universes, one right next to each other. And say, "We'll do a thought experiment. Let's say you could live in all the multiverses simultaneously, and not only that, but you'd know about your life in each one of these instances. So, you could go back and be the ballerina, and the scientist, and the CPA, and whatever else you wanted to be. You could have all these lives in parallel." When I ask them, "How many lives are you? How many lives would you want?", I get answers from three to 10,000. But, you know, we've sort of done the average: it's about 7,5. Most people think they have about 7,5 really good lives that they could live. And here's the deal: you only get one. But it turns out it's not what you don't choose, it's what you choose in life that makes you happy. Nevertheless, we reframed this and we say, "Great, there's more lives than one in you. So let's go on an odyssey, and let's really figure out those lives!" And we ask people to do some design. And the "ideate" bubble, it's about having lot's of ideas. So we say, "Let's have some ideas. We'll ideate your future, but you can't ideate just one. You have to ideate three." Now, there's some research from the School of Education that says if you start with three ideas and you brainstorm from there, you've got a much wider range of ideas, the ideas are more generative and they lead to better solutions to the problem rather than just starting with one and then brainstorming forward. So we always do threes; there's something magical about threes. We have people do three lives, and it's transformational. We give them this little rubric. One: "The thing you're doing, right now, whatever your career is, just do it. And you're going to do it for five years and it's going to come out great." I mean, in design, we're sort of values-neutral, except for one thing: we never design anything to make it worse, right? I have been on some teams that made some pretty bad products, but we weren't trying to, we were trying to make it better. So, thing one: your life, make it better. And also put in the bucket list stuff: you want to go to Paris, to the Galapagos - the guy with the ice thing - before it's all under water and we can't see it anymore. So, that's plan one: your life goes great. Plan two: I'm really sorry to tell you, but the robots and the AI stuff - that job doesn't exist anymore, the robots are doing it. We don't need you to do that anymore. Now, what are going to do? So what do you do if the thing that you've got goes away? And you know, everybody's got a side hustle or something they can do to make that work. And three is: what's your wild-card plan? What would you do if you didn't have to worry about money? You've got enough. You're not fabulously wealthy, but you've got enough. And what would you do if you knew no one would laugh? My students come in for my office hours a lot of times, and they'll say something like, "Well, what I really want to do is this, but I can't just hear people saying, 'You didn't go to Stanford to do that, did you?'" (Laughter) Because somehow, if you went to Stanford, you have to do some of the amazing things the past speakers have been doing. "But what would you do if you had enough money and you didn't care what people thought? Anything from, 'I'm going to go study butterflies' to, 'I want to be a bartender, you know, in Belize.' What would you do?" And people have those three plans. Now what happens when they do this is, one, they realize, "Oh my gosh, I could actually have imagined my three completely parallel lives are all pretty interesting." Two, they rarely go become a bartender, you know, in Belize. But a lot of times, the things that come up in the other plans were things that they left behind somehow. In the business of life, they forgot about those things. And so they bring them back and put them in plan one, then they make their lives even better. Sometimes they do pivot, but mostly they just use this as a method of ideating all the possible wonderful ways they could have a life. Now, you could start executing that, but in our model, the thing you do after you have ideas is you build a prototype. We have met people who've quit their job and suddenly done something else, It hardly ever works. You kind of have to sneak up on it, because in our model, we want to set the bar really low, try stuff, have some success, do it again. So when we say "prototype," in our language, what we mean is a way to ask an interesting question, "What would it be like if I tried this?", a way to expose the assumptions, "Is this even the thing I want or is that just something I remember I wanted when I was 20?" I've got to go out in the world and do this, so I'm going to get others involved in prototyping my life, and I'm going to sneak up on the future, because I don't if this is exactly what I want. There's two kinds of life-design prototypes and what we call prototype conversation. You know, William Gibson, the science-fiction writer has a famous quote: "The future is already here. It's just unevenly distributed." So, there is someone who's a bartender in Ibiza. He's been doing it for years, I could go meet him and have a conversation, he or she. Somebody else is doing something else I'm interested in. All of these people are out there, they're living in my future, today. They're doing what I want to do, today. And if I have a conversation with them, I just ask for their story and everybody will tell you their story. If you buy them a cup of coffee, they tell you the story. If I hear something in the story that rings in me - We have this thing we call narrative resonance: when I hear a story that's kind of like my story, something happens, and I can identify that as a potential way of moving forward. The other one is a prototype experience. Dave and I were working with a woman, sort of mid-career in her 40s and a very successful tech executive, but wanted to move from money-making to meaning-making, to do something more meaningful, thinking of going back to school, getting an MA in education, working with kids. But she's like, "You know, I don't know, I'm 45, going back to school. It's not going to work. And then I heard about these millennials. They're kind of mean and they don't like old people." (Laughter) What am I going to do, Bill?" I said, "Well, you just have to go try this, you know. It turns out we sent her to a seminar class and to a large lecture-hall class, and by the way, you just put on a T-shirt that says "Stanford" and you walk into a class, nobody knows. She wasn't registered, but you know, she went and she went to the classes and she came back and said, "You know what? It was fantastic! I walked into the lecture hall, I sat down, my body was on fire! It was interesting, I was so interested in the way the lecture was going. And then I met these millennials. It turned out they're pretty interesting people! I've set up three prototype conversations. And they think I'm interesting because I'm coming back to school and I'm 45." So she had a felt experience, because we are more than just our brains. She had a felt experience that this might work for her. So these are two ways you can prototype your way forward. The last idea: you want to make a good decision well. So many people make choices and they're not happy with their choices because they don't really know how do they know what they know, right? It's a hard thing, particularly in our days when we have so many choices. So we have a process. Again it comes from the positive psychology guys. Gather and create options. Once you get good at design you're really good at coming up with options. You've got narrow those down to a working list that you can work with. Then, you make the choice to make a good choice, and then of course you agonize that you did the wrong thing. (Laughter) All my students have what is called FOMO, fear missing out, "What if I didn't pick the right thing." Someone came into my office and said, "I'll declare three majors and two minors" and I said, "Do you plan on being here for a few years? It's not going to happen, right?" So we don't say that; we say you want to let go and move on, and all these have some psychological basis in them. Let me tell you about it. Once you get good at gathering and creating ideas, you also want to make sure you leave room for the lucky ideas, the serendipitous ideas. This is a guy named Tony Hsieh. He was the CEO at Zappos, he sold it to Amazon. But before you became an employee at Zappos you had to take a test, and the test was, "Are you lucky?" One, two or three: "I'm not very lucky, and I'm not sure why." Seven, eight, nine, ten, "I'm very lucky, great things happen to me all the time, I'm not sure why." He wouldn't hire anybody who was not lucky. (Laughter) I think it's probably illegal, but it was based on - (Laughter) but it was based on a piece of research where psychologists did the same thing, "Rate yourself from lucky to unlucky." And then they had people read the front section of the New York Times, 30 pages, lots of articles. And the graduate students said, "Please count the number of -" either headlines or photographs, depending on the test. "And when you get the whole thing read and you count the number of photographs, just tell the person at the end." And if you got the right number, you'd get $100. Of course you all know when a graduate student tells you what the experiment is that's not the experiment. So, inside this thing that looked like the New York Times, 30 pages, front page, inside all the stories were little pieces of text that said, "If you read this, the experiment's over. Collect an extra $ 150." People who rated themselves as unlucky by and large got the right answer, 36 headlines, whatever it was, got the $ 100. People who rated themselves as lucky - seven, eight, nine or ten - 80% of the time noticed the text and got the extra $150. It's not about being lucky. It's about paying attention to what you're doing and keeping your peripheral vision open because it's in your peripheral vision that those interesting opportunities show up, right, that you were not expecting. So you want to get good at being lucky. Narrowing down. This is quite simple. If you have too many choices, you go into what psychologists call choice overload, and then you have essentially no choices. Here's the experiment. This was done at Stanford. You walk into a grocery store and there's a nice lady. She's got a table and on the table, she has six jams, and you come over try the jams to have a sample, buy some jam. Six jams; about 30 people who would go by pick a jam, or stop and test something, and about a third of those actually buy a jam. That's the baseline. Next week, you walk in, 24 jams: jalapeño, strawberry, banana, whatever; all sorts of jams. Well, guess what happens? Twice as many people stop, look at all these jams, it's so interesting. Three percent of the people buy them. (Laughter) When you have too many choices, you have no choice. What do you do when you have too many choices? Just cross off a bunch of choices. Psychologists tells us we can't handle more than five to seven. I'd say it's five. If you've got a bunch of choices, cross them all off, just pick the five and then make your decision there. "Oh my God! What if I pick the wrong ones? What if I cross off the wrong ones?" Right? Well, you won't, because it's the pizza or Chinese food thing. You're at the office and everybody says, "Let's go out to lunch today." "Sounds great. What do you want to do? Pizza or Chinese food?" "I don't care." In the elevator on their way down, someone says, "Let's get Chinese food." Then you go, "No, I want pizza." (Laughter) You won't decide how you feel about the decision till the decision's made. That's a piece of research that's been done again and again and again. So just cross them off. If you cross off the wrong one, you'll have a feeling somewhere in your stomach that you did the wrong thing. Choosing - this is about that feeling in your stomach. You cannot choose well if you choose only from your rational mind. This is Dan Goleman, who wrote the book on emotional intelligence. He does a lot of research on this, a lot of brain science. There's a part of your brain, way down in the base brain, the basal ganglia, that summarizes emotional decisions for you. I did something, got good emotional response from that: good, check. I did something and had a little bad emotional response to that. It summarizes all of the emotions that you have felt and how your decisions were valenced positive or negative an emotion. The problem with that part of your brain is that it's so early in the brain it doesn't talk to the part of your brain that talks. There's no connection to the prefrontal cortex or anything else. It's only connected to your GI tract and your limbic system. So, it gives you information through felt sensations, a "gut feeling." Without that, you can't make good decisions. And then the letting go and moving on. This was the hardest part for me, but this is also the work of Dan Gilbert, who is a distinguished scientist at Harvard, despite the fact that he's doing insurance commercials now. And he's been studying decision-making and how do you make yourself happy. So, you walk in another psychology experiment. The postdoc has got five Monet prints, five pictures from Monet, and you rank them from best to least, "I like this one the most, I like this one the least," number one and number five. "Thank you very much, the experiment's over. Oh, by the way, as you're walking out, you know, I kind of screwed up and I bought too many of number two and three. So if you want to take one home you can just have it. Two conditions: in one case, take it home and have it, but don't bring it back because I'm kind of embarrassed and - Just keep it, you can't exchange it. Second condition: I've got lots of these. If you don't like the one you picked, you can swap it back and pick another one." And of course everybody picks number two. It's a little better than number three. We bring people back in a week later and say, "Re-rank the stimuli. Which one do you like now?" The people who were allowed to change their mind don't like their painting, they don't like the print, they don't like the other one anymore, they don't like any of them anymore. In fact, they don't like the whole process and they have destroyed their opportunity to be happy. (Laughter) The people who were told, "You pick it, it's yours, you can't return it" love their print, they typically rank it as number one and think the rest of them suck. (Laughter) If you make decisions reversible, your chance of being happy goes down like 60 or 70 percent. So, let go and move on, make the decision reversible. And by the way, as a designer, that's no problem, because you're really good at generating options, you're great at ideation, you're really good at prototyping to get data in the world to see of that world will be the world you want to live in, so you have no fear of missing out. It's just a process, a mindful process: collect, reduce, decide, move on. That's how you make yourself happy. So, the five ideas: Connecting the dots to find meaning through work and life views. Stay away from gravity problems because I can't fix those and neither can you; reframe those to something that is workable. Do three plans, never one, always do three of everything, three ideations for any of the problems you're working on to make sure that you've covered not just the ideas that you had when you started, but all the other ideas that are possible. Prototype everything in your life before you jump in and try it. And choose well; there's no point in making a good choice poorly. Choose well and you will find that things in your life are much easier. And you can do this, we know you can, because thousands of students have done it. Two PhD studies have been done in the class that demonstrated higher self-efficacy, lower dysfunctional beliefs. It's a fascinating process to watch people who don't think of themselves as creative go through this class and walk out saying, "You know what? I'm a pretty creative person!" what David Kelly calls "creative confidence." So, we know you can do it, thank you very much. It's simple: get curious, talk to people and try stuff, and you will design a well-lived and joyful life. Thank you. (Applause) (Cheers)

## 8. THE MAGIC WASHING MACHINE | HANS ROSLING

I was only four years old when I saw my mother load a washing machine for the very first time in her life. That was a great day for my mother. and father had been saving money for years to be able to buy that machine, and the first day it was going to be used, even Grandma was invited to see the machine. (Laughter) And Grandma was even more excited. Throughout her life, she had been heating water with firewood, and she had hand-washed laundry for seven children. And now, she was going to watch electricity do that work. My mother carefully opened the door, and she loaded the laundry into the machine, like this. And then, when she closed the door, Grandma said, "No, no, no, no! Let me! Let me push the button!" (Laughter) And Grandma pushed the button, and she said, "Oh, fantastic! I want to see this! Give me a chair! Give me a chair! I want to see it," and she sat down in front of the machine, and she watched the entire washing program. (Laughter) She was mesmerized. To my grandmother, the washing machine was a miracle. Today, in Sweden and other rich countries, people are using so many different machines. Look -- the homes are full of machines. I can't even name them all. And they also, when they want to travel, they use flying machines that can take them to remote destinations. And yet, in the world, there are so many people who still heat the water on fire, and they cook their food on fire. Sometimes they don't even have enough food. And they live below the poverty line. There are two billion fellow human beings who live on less than two dollars a day. And the richest people over there -- there's one billion people, and they live above what I call the "air line" -- (Laughter) because they spend more than 80 dollars a day on their consumption. But this is just one, two, three billion people, and obviously, there are seven billion people in the world, so there must be one, two, three, four billion people more who live in between the poverty and the air line. They have electricity, but the question is: How many have washing machines? I've done the scrutiny of market data, and I've found that, indeed, the washing machine has penetrated below the air line, and today, there's an additional one billion people out there who live above the "wash line." (Laughter) And they consume for more than 40 dollars per day. So two billion have access to washing machines. And the remaining five billion -- how do they wash? Or, to be more precise, how do most of the women in the world wash? Because it remains the hard work for women to wash. They wash like this: by hand. It's hard, time-consuming labor, which they have to do for hours every week. And sometimes they also have to bring water from far away to do the laundry at home, or they have to bring the laundry away to a stream far off. And they want the washing machine. They don't want to spend such a large part of their life doing this hard work with so relatively low productivity. And there's nothing different in their wish than it was for my grandma. Look here, two generations ago in Sweden -- picking water from the stream, heating with firewood and washing like that. They want the washing machine in exactly the same way. But when I lecture to environmentally concerned students, they tell me, "No, everybody in the world cannot have cars and washing machines." How can we tell this woman that she isn't going to have a washing machine? And then I ask my students -- over the last two years, I've asked -- "How many of you don't use a car?" And some of them proudly raise their hand and say, "I don't use a car." And then I put the really tough question: "How many of you hand-wash your jeans and your bedsheets?" And no one raised their hand. Even the hardcore in the green movement use washing machines. (Laughter) So how come [this is] something that everyone uses and they think others will not stop it? What is special with this? I had to do an analysis about the energy use in the world. Here we are. Look here. You see the seven billion people up there? The air people, the wash people, the bulb people and the fire people. One unit like this is an energy unit of fossil fuel -- oil, coal or gas. That's what most of the electricity and the energy in the world is. And it's 12 units used in the entire world, and the richest one billion, they use six of them. Half of the energy is used by one seventh of the world population. And these ones, who have washing machines but not a house full of other machines, they use two. This group uses three, one each. And they also have electricity. And over there, they don't even use one each. That makes 12 of them. But the main concern for the environmentally interested students -- and they are right -- is about the future. What are the trends? If we just prolong the trends, without any real advanced analysis, to 2050, there are two things that can increase the energy use: first, population growth; second, economic growth. Population growth will mainly occur among the poorest people here, because they have high child mortality and they have many children per woman. And that will get you two extra, but that won't change the energy use very much. What will happen is economic growth. The best of here in the emerging economies -- I call them "the New East" -- they will jump the air line. "Wopp!" they will say. And they will start to use as much as the Old West are doing already. (Laughter) And these people, they want the washing machine. I told you. They'll go there. And they will double their energy use. And we hope that the poor people will get into the electric light. And they'll get a two-child family without a stop in population growth. But the total energy consumption will increase to 22 units. And these 22 units -- still, the richest people use most of them. So what needs to be done? Because the risk, the high probability of climate change is real. It's real. Of course, they must be more energy efficient. They must change their behavior in some way. They must also start to produce green energy, much more green energy. But until they have the same energy consumption per person, they shouldn't give advice to others -- what to do and what not to do. (Laughter) (Applause) Here, we can get more green energy all over. This is what we hope might happen. It's a real challenge in the future. But I can assure you that this woman in the favela in Rio, she wants a washing machine. She's very happy about her minister of energy that provided electricity to everyone -- so happy that she even voted for her. And she became Dilma Rousseff, the president-elect of one of the biggest democracies in the world, moving from minister of energy to president. If you have democracy, people will vote for washing machines. They love them! (Laughter) And what's the magic with them? My mother explained the magic with this machine the very, very first day. She said, "Now, Hans. We have loaded the laundry. The machine will make the work. And now we can go to the library." Because this is the magic: you load the laundry, and what do you get out of the machine? You get books out of the machines, children's books. And mother got time to read for me. She loved this. I got the "ABC's" -- this is why I started my career as a professor, when my mother had time to read for me. And she also got books for herself. She managed to study English and learn that as a foreign language. And she read so many novels, so many different novels here. And we really, we really loved this machine. (Laughter) And what we said, my mother and me, "Thank you, industrialization. Thank you, steel mill. Thank you, power station. And thank you, chemical processing industry that gave us time to read books." Thank you very much. (Laughter) (Applause)

## 9. HOW TO RECLAIM YOUR LIFE FROM WORK | SIMONE STOLZOFF | TED

I once met this Chilean guy at a hostel. "So what do you do?" I asked him. "You mean for work?" he responded as if I had just asked the color of his underwear. (Laughter) In the US, “What do you do?” is often the first question we ask when we meet someone new. This is drilled into us from an early age. "What do you want to be when you grow up?" we ask our kids, already conflating who we are with what we do, as if our jobs and identities were one and the same. I think about this a lot. I'm a labor journalist, and I wrote a book called "The Good Enough Job," in which I spoke to over 100 people about the relationship between their work and their identity. But before I was a professional writer, I was a 22-year-old poetry student trying to figure out what I wanted to be when I grew up. It was around this time that I had the opportunity to interview my favorite writer in the entire world, the poet Anis Mojgani. And so I asked him, "Anis, how do you feel about the mantra, do what you love and never work a day in your life?" And I'll never forget what he told me. He said, "You know, Simone, I think some people do what they love for work, and others do what they have to so they can do what they love when they're not working. And neither is more noble." I think that last part is key. We live in a society that loves to revere people whose jobs and identities neatly align. And here was my idol, a professional poet no less, telling me that it's OK to have a day job. If we want to develop a healthier relationship to work, we can't just think about work-life balance in terms of how we spend our time. We have to think about how we construct our identity. What we do is part of but not the entirety of who we are. Let me be clear. I don't think there's anything wrong with doing what you love for work. We work more than we do just about anything else, and how we spend those hours matters. And yet, our current relationship to work isn't quite working. A recent study found that 48 percent of workers around the globe are burnt out. 48 percent. That's half this room. Actually, in this room, probably more than half. And yet, the way that we commonly talk about burnout doesn't address its root cause. There's a reason why a one-week vacation doesn't magically cure us. There's a reason why our intentions to practice self-care and set better boundaries inevitably break down. It's like we're shielding ourselves from the sun with a cocktail umbrella. If we want to actually change our relationship to work, we have to go deeper. It starts with our identity. Certainly, we are all more than just workers. We’re parents and friends and citizens and artists and travelers and neighbors. Much like an investor benefits from diversifying the sources of stocks in their portfolio, we, too, benefit from diversifying the sources of meaning and identity in our lives. But how do you actually go about doing so? Rabbi Abraham Joshua Heschel described Shabbat, the weekly Jewish practice of abstaining from work, as a sanctuary in time. I love this image. Rather than a physical sanctuary, like a synagogue, Shabbat is a time sanctuary. So the first step to diversifying your identity is to create those time sanctuaries, spaces in your days, in your weeks, in your life where work is not an option. Unlike mere intentions to work less or set better boundaries, time sanctuaries require infrastructure. Putting time on the calendar to learn a new language, putting your phone in airplane mode while you play with your kids so that work doesn't expand like a gas and fill all of your unoccupied space. The second step is to fill those time sanctuaries with activities that reinforce the other identities you hope to cultivate. The present father, the community gardener, the amateur musician. It may sound simple, but if we want to derive meaning from aspects of our life other than work, we have to do things other than work. Now these don't have to be grand gestures. In the reporting in my book, I spoke to all of these hyperambitious workaholics, and they'd say things like, "Diversify my identity. Got it. I’m going to read 52 books this year. Or I’m going to run an ultramarathon.” We even convert our leisure into other forms of labor. My advice is to start small. How about a weekly walk with your best friend? Or ten minutes practicing the piano after dinner. The third step is to reinforce these identities by joining communities who couldn't care less about what you do for work. For example, I love to play pickup basketball, and one of the benefits of my weekly game is that the people I play with don't care how many words I've written or how many books I've sold. They care that I show up on time and that I'm a good teammate. It’s a weekly reminder that I exist on this Earth to do more than just produce economic value. The irony is that diversifying our identity can be great for business too. Research shows that people with varied interests tend to be more creative problem solvers and more innovative. Hobbies are one of the best ways to recharge so that you can be more productive when you're back on the clock. And a diverse identity can come in handy in the face of a stressful event like a recession or a layoff. I spoke to all of these folks for my book who treated their work like their family and then were unceremoniously let go during the pandemic. If you are what you do and you lose your job, who are you? But in addition to the business case, there's also the moral case. If we want to develop more well-rounded versions of ourselves, if we want to build robust relationships and live in robust communities and have a robust society at large, we all must invest in aspects of our lives beyond work. We shouldn't just work less because it makes us better workers. We should work less because it makes us better people. This isn't just about you and me. This is about teaching our kids that their self-worth is not determined by their job title. This is about reinforcing the fact that not all noble work neatly translates to a line on a resume. This is about setting the example that we all have a responsibility to contribute to the world in a way beyond contributing to one organization's bottom line. So the next time you're at a party, instead of asking someone, "What do you do?" I encourage you to add two small words to your question. Instead, ask them, "What do you like to do?" Maybe you like to cook. Maybe you like to write. Maybe you do some of those things for work. Or maybe you don't. But “What do you like to do” is a question that allows each of us to define ourselves on our own terms. Thank you. (Applause)

## 10. THE HAPPY SECRET TO BETTER WORK | SHAWN ACHOR

When I was seven years old and my sister was just five years old, we were playing on top of a bunk bed. I was two years older than my sister at the time -- I mean, I'm two years older than her now -- but at the time it meant she had to do everything that I wanted to do, and I wanted to play war. So we were up on top of our bunk beds. And on one side of the bunk bed, I had put out all of my G.I. Joe soldiers and weaponry. And on the other side were all my sister's My Little Ponies ready for a cavalry charge. There are differing accounts of what actually happened that afternoon, but since my sister is not here with us today, let me tell you the true story -- (Laughter) which is my sister's a little on the clumsy side. Somehow, without any help or push from her older brother at all, Amy disappeared off of the top of the bunk bed and landed with this crash on the floor. I nervously peered over the side of the bed to see what had befallen my fallen sister and saw that she had landed painfully on her hands and knees on all fours on the ground. I was nervous because my parents had charged me with making sure that my sister and I played as safely and as quietly as possible. And seeing as how I had accidentally broken Amy's arm just one week before -- (Laughter) ends) heroically pushing her out of the way of an oncoming imaginary sniper bullet, (Laughter) for which I have yet to be thanked, I was trying as hard as I could -- she didn't even see it coming -- I was trying hard to be on my best behavior. And I saw my sister's face, this wail of pain and suffering and surprise threatening to erupt from her mouth and wake my parents from the long winter's nap for which they had settled. So I did the only thing my frantic seven year-old brain could think to do to avert this tragedy. And if you have children, you've seen this hundreds of times. I said, "Amy, wait. Don't cry. Did you see how you landed? No human lands on all fours like that. Amy, I think this means you're a unicorn." (Laughter) Now, that was cheating, because there was nothing she would want more than not to be Amy the hurt five year-old little sister, but Amy the special unicorn. Of course, this option was open to her brain at no point in the past. And you could see how my poor, manipulated sister faced conflict, as her little brain attempted to devote resources to feeling the pain and suffering and surprise she just experienced, or contemplating her new-found identity as a unicorn. And the latter won. Instead of crying or ceasing our play, instead of waking my parents, with all the negative consequences for me, a smile spread across her face and she scrambled back up onto the bunk bed with all the grace of a baby unicorn -- (Laughter) with one broken leg. What we stumbled across at this tender age of just five and seven -- we had no idea at the time -- was was going be at the vanguard of a scientific revolution occurring two decades later in the way that we look at the human brain. We had stumbled across something called positive psychology, which is the reason I'm here today and the reason that I wake up every morning. When I started talking about this research outside of academia, with companies and schools, the first thing they said to never do is to start with a graph. The first thing I want to do is start with a graph. This graph looks boring, but it is the reason I get excited and wake up every morning. And this graph doesn't even mean anything; it's fake data. What we found is -- (Laughter) If I got this data studying you, I would be thrilled, because there's a trend there, and that means that I can get published, which is all that really matters. There is one weird red dot above the curve, there's one weirdo in the room -- I know who you are, I saw you earlier -- that's no problem. as most of you know, because I can just delete that dot. I can delete that dot because that's clearly a measurement error. And we know that's a measurement error because it's messing up my data. (Laughter) So one of the first things we teach people in economics, statistics, business and psychology courses is how, in a statistically valid way, do we eliminate the weirdos. How do we eliminate the outliers so we can find the line of best fit? Which is fantastic if I'm trying to find out how many Advil the average person should be taking -- two. But if I'm interested in your potential, or for happiness or productivity or energy or creativity, we're creating the cult of the average with science. If I asked a question like, "How fast can a child learn how to read in a classroom?" scientists change the answer to "How fast does the average child learn how to read in that classroom?" and we tailor the class towards the average. If you fall below the average, then psychologists get thrilled, because that means you're depressed or have a disorder, or hopefully both. We're hoping for both because our business model is, if you come into a therapy session with one problem, we want to make sure you leave knowing you have ten, so you keep coming back. We'll go back into your childhood if necessary, but eventually we want to make you normal again. But normal is merely average. And positive psychology posits that if we study what is merely average, we will remain merely average. Then instead of deleting those positive outliers, what I intentionally do is come into a population like this one and say, why? are some of you high above the curve in terms of intellectual, athletic, musical ability, creativity, energy levels, resiliency in the face of challenge, sense of humor? Whatever it is, instead of deleting you, what I want to do is study you. Because maybe we can glean information, not just how to move people up to the average, but move the entire average up in our companies and schools worldwide. The reason this graph is important to me is, on the news, the majority of the information is not positive. in fact it's negative. Most of it's about murder, corruption, diseases, natural disasters. And very quickly, my brain starts to think that's the accurate ratio of negative to positive in the world. This creates "the medical school syndrome." During the first year of medical training, as you read through a list of all the symptoms and diseases, suddenly you realize you have all of them. (Laughter) I have a brother in-law named Bobo, which is a whole other story. Bobo married Amy the unicorn. Bobo called me on the phone -- (Laughter) from Yale Medical School, and Bobo said, "Shawn, I have leprosy." (Laughter) Which, even at Yale, is extraordinarily rare. But I had no idea how to console poor Bobo because he had just gotten over an entire week of menopause. (Laughter) We're finding it's not necessarily the reality that shapes us, but the lens through which your brain views the world that shapes your reality. And if we can change the lens, not only can we change your happiness, we can change every single educational and business outcome at the same time. I applied to Harvard on a dare. I didn't expect to get in, and my family had no money for college. When I got a military scholarship two weeks later, they let me go. Something that wasn't even a possibility became a reality. I assumed everyone there would see it as a privilege as well, that they'd be excited to be there. Even in a classroom full of people smarter than you, I felt you'd be happy just to be in that classroom. But what I found is, while some people experience that, when I graduated after my four years and then spent the next eight years living in the dorms with the students -- Harvard asked me to; I wasn't that guy. (Laughter) I was an officer to counsel students through the difficult four years. And in my research and my teaching, I found that these students, no matter how happy they were with their original success of getting into the school, two weeks later their brains were focused, not on the privilege of being there, nor on their philosophy or physics, but on the competition, the workload, the hassles, stresses, complaints. When I first went in there, I walked into the freshmen dining hall, which is where my friends from Waco, Texas, which is where I grew up -- I know some of you know this. When they'd visit, they'd look around, and say, "This dining hall looks like something out of Hogwart's." It does, because that was Hogwart's and that's Harvard. And when they see this, they say, "Why do you waste your time studying happiness at Harvard? What does a Harvard student possibly have to be unhappy about?" Embedded within that question is the key to understanding the science of happiness. Because what that question assumes is that our external world is predictive of our happiness levels, when in reality, if I know everything about your external world, I can only predict 10% of your long-term happiness. 90 percent of your long-term happiness is predicted not by the external world, but by the way your brain processes the world. And if we change it, if we change our formula for happiness and success, we can change the way that we can then affect reality. What we found is that only 25% of job successes are predicted by IQ, 75 percent of job successes are predicted by your optimism levels, your social support and your ability to see stress as a challenge instead of as a threat. I talked to a New England boarding school, probably the most prestigious one, and they said, "We already know that. So every year, instead of just teaching our students, we have a wellness week. And we're so excited. Monday night we have the world's leading expert will speak about adolescent depression. Tuesday night it's school violence and bullying. Wednesday night is eating disorders. Thursday night is illicit drug use. And Friday night we're trying to decide between risky sex or happiness." (Laughter) I said, "That's most people's Friday nights." (Laughter) (Applause) Which I'm glad you liked, but they did not like that at all. Silence on the phone. And into the silence, I said, "I'd be happy to speak at your school, but that's not a wellness week, that's a sickness week. You've outlined all the negative things that can happen, but not talked about the positive." The absence of disease is not health. Here's how we get to health: We need to reverse the formula for happiness and success. In the last three years, I've traveled to 45 countries, working with schools and companies in the midst of an economic downturn. And I found that most companies and schools follow a formula for success, which is this: If I work harder, I'll be more successful. And if I'm more successful, then I'll be happier. That undergirds most of our parenting and managing styles, the way that we motivate our behavior. And the problem is it's scientifically broken and backwards for two reasons. Every time your brain has a success, you just changed the goalpost of what success looked like. You got good grades, now you have to get better grades, you got into a good school and after you get into a better one, you got a good job, now you have to get a better job, you hit your sales target, we're going to change it. And if happiness is on the opposite side of success, your brain never gets there. We've pushed happiness over the cognitive horizon, as a society. And that's because we think we have to be successful, then we'll be happier. But our brains work in the opposite order. If you can raise somebody's level of positivity in the present, then their brain experiences what we now call a happiness advantage, which is your brain at positive performs significantly better than at negative, neutral or stressed. Your intelligence rises, your creativity rises, your energy levels rise. In fact, we've found that every single business outcome improves. Your brain at positive is 31% more productive than your brain at negative, neutral or stressed. You're 37% better at sales. Doctors are 19 percent faster, more accurate at coming up with the correct diagnosis when positive instead of negative, neutral or stressed. Which means we can reverse the formula. If we can find a way of becoming positive in the present, then our brains work even more successfully as we're able to work harder, faster and more intelligently. We need to be able to reverse this formula so we can start to see what our brains are actually capable of. Because dopamine, which floods into your system when you're positive, has two functions. Not only does it make you happier, it turns on all of the learning centers in your brain allowing you to adapt to the world in a different way. We've found there are ways that you can train your brain to be able to become more positive. In just a two-minute span of time done for 21 days in a row, we can actually rewire your brain, allowing your brain to actually work more optimistically and more successfully. We've done these things in research now in every company that I've worked with, getting them to write down three new things that they're grateful for 21 days in a row, three new things each day. And at the end of that, their brain starts to retain a pattern of scanning the world not for the negative, but for the positive first. Journaling about one positive experience you've had over the past 24 hours allows your brain to relive it. Exercise teaches your brain that your behavior matters. We find that meditation allows your brain to get over the cultural ADHD that we've been creating by trying to do multiple tasks at once and allows our brains to focus on the task at hand. And finally, random acts of kindness are conscious acts of kindness. We get people, when they open up their inbox, to write one positive email praising or thanking somebody in their support network. And by doing these activities and by training your brain just like we train our bodies, what we've found is we can reverse the formula for happiness and success, and in doing so, not only create ripples of positivity, but a real revolution. Thank you very much. (Applause)

## 11. DO SCHOOLS KILL CREATIVITY? | SIR KEN ROBINSON | TED

Good morning. How are you? (Audience) Good. It's been great, hasn't it? I've been blown away by the whole thing. In fact, I'm leaving. (Laughter) There have been three themes running through the conference, which are relevant to what I want to talk about. One is the extraordinary evidence of human creativity in all of the presentations that we've had and in all of the people here; just the variety of it and the range of it. The second is that it's put us in a place where we have no idea what's going to happen in terms of the future. No idea how this may play out. I have an interest in education. Actually, what I find is, everybody has an interest in education. Don't you? I find this very interesting. If you're at a dinner party, and you say you work in education -- actually, you're not often at dinner parties, frankly. (Laughter) If you work in education, you're not asked. (Laughter) And you're never asked back, curiously. That's strange to me. But if you are, and you say to somebody, you know, they say, "What do you do?" and you say you work in education, you can see the blood run from their face. They're like, "Oh my God. Why me?" (Laughter) "My one night out all week." (Laughter) But if you ask about their education, they pin you to the wall, because it's one of those things that goes deep with people, am I right? Like religion and money and other things. So I have a big interest in education, and I think we all do. We have a huge vested interest in it, partly because it's education that's meant to take us into this future that we can't grasp. If you think of it, children starting school this year will be retiring in 2065. Nobody has a clue, despite all the expertise that's been on parade for the past four days, what the world will look like in five years' time. And yet, we're meant to be educating them for it. So the unpredictability, I think, is extraordinary. And the third part of this is that we've all agreed, nonetheless, on the really extraordinary capacities that children have -- their capacities for innovation. I mean, Sirena last night was a marvel, wasn't she? Just seeing what she could do. And she's exceptional, but I think she's not, so to speak, exceptional in the whole of childhood. What you have there is a person of extraordinary dedication who found a talent. And my contention is, all kids have tremendous talents, and we squander them, pretty ruthlessly. So I want to talk about education, and I want to talk about creativity. My contention is that creativity now is as important in education as literacy, and we should treat it with the same status. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) That was it, by the way. Thank you very much. (Laughter) So, 15 minutes left. (Laughter) "Well, I was born... " (Laughter) I heard a great story recently -- I love telling it -- of a little girl who was in a drawing lesson. She was six, and she was at the back, drawing, and the teacher said this girl hardly ever paid attention, and in this drawing lesson, she did. The teacher was fascinated. She went over to her, and she said, "What are you drawing?" And the girl said, "I'm drawing a picture of God." And the teacher said, "But nobody knows what God looks like." And the girl said, "They will in a minute." (Laughter) When my son was four in England -- actually, he was four everywhere, to be honest. (Laughter) If we're being strict about it, wherever he went, he was four that year. He was in the Nativity play. Do you remember the story? (Laughter) No, it was big, it was a big story. Mel Gibson did the sequel, you may have seen it. (Laughter) "Nativity II." But James got the part of Joseph, which we were thrilled about. We considered this to be one of the lead parts. We had the place crammed full of agents in T-shirts: "James Robinson IS Joseph!" (Laughter) He didn't have to speak, but you know the bit where the three kings come in? They come in bearing gifts, gold, frankincense and myrrh. This really happened. We were sitting there, and I think they just went out of sequence, because we talked to the little boy afterward and said, "You OK with that?" They said, "Yeah, why? Was that wrong?" They just switched. The three boys came in, four-year-olds with tea towels on their heads. They put these boxes down, and the first boy said, "I bring you gold." And the second boy said, "I bring you myrrh." And the third boy said, "Frank sent this." (Laughter) What these things have in common is that kids will take a chance. If they don't know, they'll have a go. Am I right? They're not frightened of being wrong. I don't mean to say that being wrong is the same thing as being creative. What we do know is, if you're not prepared to be wrong, you'll never come up with anything original -- if you're not prepared to be wrong. And by the time they get to be adults, most kids have lost that capacity. They have become frightened of being wrong. And we run our companies like this. We stigmatize mistakes. And we're now running national education systems where mistakes are the worst thing you can make. And the result is that we are educating people out of their creative capacities. Picasso once said this, he said that all children are born artists. The problem is to remain an artist as we grow up. I believe this passionately, that we don't grow into creativity, we grow out of it. Or rather, we get educated out of it. So why is this? I lived in Stratford-on-Avon until about five years ago. In fact, we moved from Stratford to Los Angeles. So you can imagine what a seamless transition this was. (Laughter) Actually, we lived in a place called Snitterfield, just outside Stratford, which is where Shakespeare's father was born. Are you struck by a new thought? I was. You don't think of Shakespeare having a father, do you? Because you don't think of Shakespeare being a child, do you? Shakespeare being seven? I never thought of it. I mean, he was seven at some point. He was in somebody's English class, wasn't he? (Laughter) How annoying would that be? (Laughter) "Must try harder." (Laughter) Being sent to bed by his dad, to Shakespeare, "Go to bed, now!" To William Shakespeare. "And put the pencil down!" (Laughter) "And stop speaking like that." (Laughter) "It's confusing everybody." (Laughter) Anyway, we moved from Stratford to Los Angeles, and I just want to say a word about the transition. Actually, my son didn't want to come. I've got two kids; he's 21 now, my daughter's 16. He didn't want to come to Los Angeles. He loved it, but he had a girlfriend in England. This was the love of his life, Sarah. He'd known her for a month. (Laughter) Mind you, they'd had their fourth anniversary, because it's a long time when you're 16. He was really upset on the plane. He said, "I'll never find another girl like Sarah." And we were rather pleased about that, frankly -- (Laughter) because she was the main reason we were leaving the country. (Laughter) But something strikes you when you move to America and travel around the world: every education system on earth has the same hierarchy of subjects. Every one. Doesn't matter where you go. You'd think it would be otherwise, but it isn't. At the top are mathematics and languages, then the humanities. At the bottom are the arts. Everywhere on earth. And in pretty much every system, too, there's a hierarchy within the arts. Art and music are normally given a higher status in schools than drama and dance. There isn't an education system on the planet that teaches dance every day to children the way we teach them mathematics. Why? not? I think this is rather important. I think math is very important, but so is dance. Children dance all the time if they're allowed to, we all do. We all have bodies, don't we? Did I miss a meeting? (Laughter) Truthfully, what happens is, as children grow up, we start to educate them progressively from the waist up. And then we focus on their heads. And slightly to one side. If you were to visit education as an alien and say "What's it for, public education?" I think you'd have to conclude, if you look at the output, who really succeeds by this, who does everything they should, who gets all the brownie points, who are the winners -- I think you'd have to conclude the whole purpose of public education throughout the world is to produce university professors. Isn't it? They're the people who come out the top. And I used to be one, so there. (Laughter) And I like university professors, but, you know, we shouldn't hold them up as the high-water mark of all human achievement. They're just a form of life. Another form of life. But they're rather curious. And I say this out of affection for them: there's something curious about professors. In my experience -- not all of them, but typically -- they live in their heads. They live up there and slightly to one side. They're disembodied, you know, in a kind of literal way. They look upon their body as a form of transport for their heads. (Laughter) Don't they? It's a way of getting their head to meetings. (Laughter) If you want real evidence of out-of-body experiences, by the way, get yourself along to a residential conference of senior academics and pop into the discotheque on the final night. (Laughter) And there, you will see it. Grown men and women writhing uncontrollably, off the beat. (Laughter) Waiting until it ends, so they can go home and write a paper about it. (Laughter) Our education system is predicated on the idea of academic ability. And there's a reason. Around the world, there were no public systems of education, really, before the 19th century. They all came into being to meet the needs of industrialism. So the hierarchy is rooted on two ideas. Number one, that the most useful subjects for work are at the top. So you were probably steered benignly away from things at school when you were a kid, things you liked, on the grounds you would never get a job doing that. Is that right? "Don't do music, you're not going to be a musician; don't do art, you won't be an artist." Benign advice -- now, profoundly mistaken. The whole world is engulfed in a revolution. And the second is academic ability, which has really come to dominate our view of intelligence, because the universities design the system in their image. If you think of it, the whole system of public education around the world is a protracted process of university entrance. And the consequence is that many highly talented, brilliant, creative people think they're not, because the thing they were good at at school wasn't valued, or was actually stigmatized. And I think we can't afford to go on that way. In the next 30 years, according to UNESCO, more people worldwide will be graduating through education than since the beginning of history. More people. And it's the combination of all the things we've talked about: technology and its transformational effect on work, and demography and the huge explosion in population. Suddenly, degrees aren't worth anything. Isn't that true? When I was a student, if you had a degree, you had a job. If you didn't have a job, it's because you didn't want one. And I didn't want one, frankly. (Laughter) But now kids with degrees are often heading home to carry on playing video games, because you need an MA where the previous job required a BA, and now you need a PhD for the other. It's a process of academic inflation. And it indicates the whole structure of education is shifting beneath our feet. We need to radically rethink our view of intelligence. We know three things about intelligence. One, it's diverse. We think about the world in all the ways that we experience it. We think visually, we think in sound, we think kinesthetically. We think in abstract terms, we think in movement. Secondly, intelligence is dynamic. If you look at the interactions of a human brain, as we heard yesterday from a number of presentations, intelligence is wonderfully interactive. The brain isn't divided into compartments. In fact, creativity -- which I define as the process of having original ideas that have value -- more often than not comes about through the interaction of different disciplinary ways of seeing things. By the way, there's a shaft of nerves that joins the two halves of the brain, called the corpus callosum. It's thicker in women. Following off from Helen yesterday, this is probably why women are better at multitasking. Because you are, aren't you? There's a raft of research, but I know it from my personal life. If my wife is cooking a meal at home, which is not often... thankfully. (Laughter) No, she's good at some things. But if she's cooking, she's dealing with people on the phone, she's talking to the kids, she's painting the ceiling -- (Laughter) she's doing open-heart surgery over here. If I'm cooking, the door is shut, the kids are out, the phone's on the hook, if she comes in, I get annoyed. I say, "Terry, please, I'm trying to fry an egg in here." (Laughter) "Give me a break." (Laughter) Actually, do you know that old philosophical thing, "If a tree falls in a forest, and nobody hears it, did it happen?" Remember that old chestnut? I saw a great T-shirt recently, which said, "If a man speaks his mind in a forest, and no woman hears him, is he still wrong?" (Laughter) And the third thing about intelligence is, it's distinct. I'm doing a new book at the moment called "Epiphany," which is based on a series of interviews with people about how they discovered their talent. I'm fascinated by how people got to be there. It's really prompted by a conversation I had with a wonderful woman who maybe most people have never heard of, Gillian Lynne. Have you heard of her? Some have. She's a choreographer, and everybody knows her work. She did "Cats" and "Phantom of the Opera." She's wonderful. I used to be on the board of The Royal Ballet, as you can see. (Laughter) Gillian and I had lunch one day. I said, "How did you get to be a dancer?" It was interesting. When she was at school, she was really hopeless. And the school, in the '30s, wrote to her parents and said, "We think Gillian has a learning disorder." She couldn't concentrate; she was fidgeting. I think now they'd say she had ADHD. Wouldn't you? But this was the 1930s, and ADHD hadn't been invented at this point. It wasn't an available condition. (Laughter) People weren't aware they could have that. (Laughter) Anyway, she went to see this specialist. So, this oak-paneled room, and she was there with her mother, and she was led and sat on this chair at the end, and she sat on her hands for 20 minutes, while this man talked to her mother about all the problems Gillian was having at school, because she was disturbing people, her homework was always late, and so on. Little kid of eight. In the end, the doctor went and sat next to Gillian and said, "I've listened to all these things your mother's told me. I need to speak to her privately. Wait here. We'll be back. We won't be very long," and they went and left her. But as they went out of the room, he turned on the radio that was sitting on his desk. And when they got out of the room, he said to her mother, "Just stand and watch her." And the minute they left the room, she was on her feet, moving to the music. And they watched for a few minutes, and he turned to her mother and said, "Mrs. Lynne, Gillian isn't sick. She's a dancer. Take her to a dance school." I said, "What happened?" She said, "She did. I can't tell you how wonderful it was. We walked in this room, and it was full of people like me -- people who couldn't sit still, people who had to move to think." They did ballet, they did tap, jazz; they did modern; they did contemporary. She was eventually auditioned for the Royal Ballet School. She became a soloist; she had a wonderful career at the Royal Ballet. She eventually graduated from the Royal Ballet School, founded the Gillian Lynne Dance Company, met Andrew Lloyd Webber. She's been responsible for some of the most successful musical theater productions in history, she's given pleasure to millions, and she's a multimillionaire. Somebody else might have put her on medication and told her to calm down. (Applause) What I think it comes to is this: Al Gore spoke the other night about ecology and the revolution that was triggered by Rachel Carson. I believe our only hope for the future is to adopt a new conception of human ecology, one in which we start to reconstitute our conception of the richness of human capacity. Our education system has mined our minds in the way that we strip-mine the earth for a particular commodity. And for the future, it won't serve us. We have to rethink the fundamental principles on which we're educating our children. There was a wonderful quote by Jonas Salk, who said, "If all the insects were to disappear from the Earth, within 50 years, all life on Earth would end. If all human beings disappeared from the Earth, within 50 years, all forms of life would flourish." And he's right. What TED celebrates is the gift of the human imagination. We have to be careful now that we use this gift wisely, and that we avert some of the scenarios that we've talked about. And the only way we'll do it is by seeing our creative capacities for the richness they are and seeing our children for the hope that they are. And our task is to educate their whole being, so they can face this future. By the way -- we may not see this future, but they will. And our job is to help them make something of it. Thank you very much. (Applause)

## 12. EVERY KID NEEDS A CHAMPION | RITA PIERSON | TED

I have spent my entire life either at the schoolhouse, on the way to the schoolhouse, or talking about what happens in the schoolhouse. Both my parents were educators, my maternal grandparents were educators, and for the past 40 years, I've done the same thing. And so, needless to say, over those decades I've had a chance to look at education reform from a lot of perspectives. Some of those reforms have been good. Some of them have been not so good. And we know why kids drop out. We know why kids don't learn. It's either poverty, low attendance, or negative peer influences. We know why. But one of the things we never discuss, or rarely discuss, is the value and importance of human connection, the value of relationships. James Comer says that no significant learning can occur without a significant relationship. George Washington Carver says all learning is understanding relationships. Everyone in this room has been affected by a teacher or an adult. For years, I have watched people teach. I have looked at the best and I've looked at some of the worst. A colleague said to me one time, 'They don't pay me to like the kids. They pay me to teach a lesson. The kids should learn it. I should teach it, they should learn it, case closed.' Well, I said to her, 'You know, kids don't learn from people they don't like.' She said, 'That's a bunch of hooey.' And I said to her, 'Well, your year is going to be long and arduous, dear.' Needless to say, it was. Some people think that you can either have it in you to build a relationship, or you don't. I think Stephen Covey had the right idea. He said you ought to just do some simple things, like seeking first to understand as opposed to being understood, simple things like apologizing. You owe an apology to a student? Go ahead and say it. It shocks them. They don't know what to do when a teacher says, 'I'm sorry, I made a mistake on that test.' One year, I had a class that was so academically low, I cried. I mean, I cried. I thought, 'How am I going to take these children from where they are to where they need to be in nine months?' And it was difficult, it was painful, but I had to do it. So, I came up with an idea. On the first day of school, I gave them a pep talk. I said, 'You were chosen to be in my class because I am the best teacher and you are the best students. They put us all together so we could show everybody else how to do it.' One of them said, 'Really?' And I said, 'Really. We have to show them, so when we walk down the hall, I want you to strut, because you are somebody.' And I gave them an affirmation to say: 'I am somebody. I was somebody when I came. I will be a better somebody when I leave. I am powerful, and I am strong. I deserve the education that I get here. I have things to do, people to impress, and places to go.' And they would say it! And they would say it with pride. You say it long enough, it starts to become a part of you. I remember I gave a 20-question quiz once. A student got 18 wrong. I put a '+2' on his paper and a big smiley face. He came to me and said, 'Ms. Pierson, is this an F?' I said, 'Yes.' He said, 'Then why did you put a smiley face?' I said, 'Because you're on a roll. You got two right! You didn't miss them all.' I said, 'And when we review this, won't you do better?' He said, 'Yes, ma'am, I can do better.' You see, a minus 18 sucks the life out of you. A plus two says, 'I ain't all bad.' For years, I watched my mother take time at recess to review, go to the dollar store to buy crayons and scissors for children who didn't have them. My mother retired after 40 years, and for years after, those former students would come by and say, 'You made a difference in my life.' Now, is this job tough? You betcha. Oh god, you betcha. It is exhausting. It is sometimes thankless. It is sometimes practice in futility. But we do it anyway. We do it because we are educators, and that's what we do. We try to find ways to make kids believe in themselves, even when they don't believe in anything. We try to be champions for them. Every child deserves a champion—an adult who will never give up on them, who understands the power of connection, and insists that they become the best that they can possibly be. Is this job hard? Yes, it is. But it's not impossible. We can do this. We are born to make a difference. Thank you so much.

## 13. WHAT IS A COLLEGE EDUCATION? DAVID RAY AT TEDXOU

uh this morning I want to raise three very difficult questions about higher education uh they're so difficult that I think we try to avoid confronting them uh and I think you'll see why when we begin to try to answer them these days they have quite unhappy implications but I'm going to try to make the case that there are reasons why we need to consider these questions now I'm not so foolish that I'm going to answer them myself although I'm going to suggest some possible answers that are based on my actual genuine beliefs and I'm some of you know I'm notorious for saying things you're not supposed to say so I have tried to devise answers that will annoy everybody in the audience and probably offend a few but uh you may not be equally annoyed but you will be annoyed uh the first question is what is a college education we use that expression as if that were a well-defined clearly identifiable phenomena and there probably was a time when it was but I think we've moved beyond that time uh the second question is what percentage of an age cohort is capable of a college education is it 10% 50% 100% and no matter what the percentage is the last question is even if you're capable of does everyone need one you know we're now living in a very odd time where people are seriously asking is a college education worth it and I do want to address that question now there was a time when we knew the answers to most of these questions a college education was a 4-year experience courses were three credit hours students would have a major maybe two uh the campus was a place of independent endent research among a community of Scholars faculty governance generally uh conducted the business of the University it was explicitly not vocational the point was to introduce students to the extraordinary achievements of humanity in science literature art music and motivate students to continue exploring those things for a lifetime um I do think that that was a very resource intensive model you know we usually thought about private universities that had very huge financial resources mostly in the Northeast although a few in other regions of the country the reality is it was so resource intensive it aimed at a very small percentage of an age group in 1920 at the Yale commencement the speaker pointed out that a college education was the province of about 2% of an age group that changes dramatically as you know after World War II with the GI Bill and also a period of sustained American Prosperity uh and a period of expansive government for about 25 years uh public education boomed following that model so by the 50s and certainly the 60s about 50% of an age cohort would go to college and about 25% of them would graduate and it was a assumed anyone who could handle it would go to college because that was the path to Upward Mobility education and income are very highly correlated in American history and people were motivated to use College as a way to move up College a college degree was a credential but it was a credential that was actually tied to demonstrable skills you got one first by doing a lot of reading this is before the internet and also by doing a lot of writing you wrote a lot and your papers were graded carefully and intensively by faculty uh so we even did some math at that time the the reality is the credentials seemed to have some significance it wasn't just a piece of paper okay now much of that has changed and I would argue the change has forced us to contemplate these questions and there are four things that have changed four reasons we have to think about it political economic social and cultural uh the political reason reason is first and simplest to State we're no longer in a period of prosperity and expansive government the American economy clearly has weakened substantially and we're in a period of government that is cutting back its support and services to the public uh the reality is as you all know almost all states have dramatically cut their support for state universities year after year after year universities have tried to make up for that long L of Revenue by jacking up tuition so tuition has increased at multiple times the rate of inflation and there's some thought that tuition is probably about as high as families can sustain as a percentage of median family income tuition is now much higher than it's ever been even though median family income is actually down uh more than that students have been encouraged to take on extraordinary burdens of student debt which we package as financial aid okay so there are political reasons why we have to think about this there are also some economic reasons that I want to point out okay I'm about to show you a graph which I believe is the single most important graph I've ever seen in my life and I think it's a graph every American should study I should probably say that it is alleged that I sometimes wander the campus handing out this graph and that is not completely false okay what the graph shows are the changes in the number of jobs during the 11 recessions in our economy since World War II okay the most recent recession is the red line and you can see right away what almost all of us already know that the loss of jobs was much much larger than ever before since the Great Depression and the recovery from that loss has been painfully slow and prolonged okay the vertical axis are is the percentage of jobs in America the zero point is the number of jobs we had when the economy peaked and went into recession okay there's a much more striking thing to notice the last three recessions are the red brown and black lines the other eight recessions the prior recessions clearly take the shape of a v so when the economy bottomed out at what we call the trough when the economy begin to grow almost immediately the number of jobs begin to grow okay if you look at the black line which is the recession of 1990 that's no V that's a u kind of a squished out U what that meant is when the economy began to grow jobs were not added in fact people were still being laid off we call this a jobless recovery and it was quite new certainly unprecedented since World War II it took 12 men's 12 months of growth before people begin to add jobs okay the next recession is the Brown Line 2001 and you can see the same lack of a v this is another U even more squished out a second consecutive jobless recovery uh it took 18 months after the trough before the growth in jobs began and of course where we are now is the red line and this is also very clearly not a v but a really squished out U it is now 4 and a half years after the recession ended and we are still back to the number we are not back to the number of jobs we had when it began more than that as I'm sure most of you know the jobs that are being created are not the jobs that were lost most of the jobs being created are low skill lowincome service sector jobs so there has been a structural change in the American economy and one of the most significant characteristics of that change is the jobs Market is much harsher one way we can see this is leaving college is less a guarantee graduating from college is less a guarantee of a good outcome in 2012 53% of recent college graduates were either unemployed or more commonly underemployed doing things like weight service and retail jobs that they could have gotten without the degree it is very clear now that that the answer to the question is a college education worth it is it depends some degrees are worth more than others some degrees are certainly worth it and some probably not in this market okay there are also some cultural reasons to think about this question the reality is I can't explain why but I definitely know it is the case college students overtime in the United States now work much less on their studies uh and great report called academically a drift by their own self-report today's students study about half as much as students in the 1960s by their self-report a better example is I began teaching 41 years ago and in a lower division course at Boston College in the first semester I used nine books and nobody said a thing about it that was a standard College course and most most of the students who got good grades read those books and demonstrated it over time the potential for doing that has clearly declined I can track my syllabi over time and see it nine books seven books five books three books we're now at a point where many college courses are one textbook and I go to lunch with some of my more disillusioned colleagues who are still trying hard and they'll say we can't get them to read the textbook they'll write in their student evaluation talk more about the book which is read the book to us now they're probably a lot of reasons for this I mean one is students have to work part-time jobs often multiple part-time jobs just to pay for this High tuition but the amount of work students do is less than it used to be for this reason we have students when they graduate who are not necessarily as skilled as they should be it's a notorious fact that we're graduating students who cannot write well employers complain about it government complains about it exams verify it we're on a campus where we have a required freshman comp sequence an aggressive expository writing program two different writing centers and several professional colleges architecture management and Engineering that have added a writing course because employers complain their graduates cannot write well or clearly okay part of the reason for this is students don't read as much reading and writing are two sides of the same coin if you don't read you won't be able to write as well another reason is grading papers is labor intensive and very few people like to do it so we have them write few papers and they're graded Loosely or by underpaid Tas or one of my favorites kids who can't write grade each other okay there's also uh a social reason I'm talking about students if they were all one category but of course there are many many different types of students let me suggest a few important ones there are highly motivated students those students are going to do fine you know they know what they want to do they know what they have to do to get there they work hard and they get there and those students are terrific but they're a minority there are great many students who are unmotivated who arrive on the campus and think an easy a with little work is a good course okay now that's a child's perspective and we understand why a child would think that but a course it's very little work and gives you an easa is the worst possible preparation for this adult reality the reality is we have students who really think college should still be kind of the prolonged adolescence of what we used to call uh MTV Spring Break back when back when somebody probably watched MTV okay uh because the jobs Market is so tough more and more people are buying into the notion that they should get more education my own view is I suspect the correlation between education and income is weakening uh but the reality is more and more people are trying to go to college and we're encouraging that and we're trying trying to encourage more and more of them to actually graduate at the same time we have shrinking resources so we have more students with less money to educate them in the best American way we think about technology as a way to be more efficient uh and there we have extraordinary technology and it can probably help the very best Ted Talk I ever watched actually the only one was salmon KH at 2011 this is is the guy who founded KH Academy and as you probably know he has developed an extraordinary website for educational purposes they're about 2200 different courses you can take uh ranging all the way from basic arithmetic to Vector calculus about 2 million people each month now sign on to KH Academy every day between 100 and 200,000 people are studying online uh that so inspired Sebastian thr a computer science professor at Stanford and uh vice president Google that he launched this phenomena of the massive open online course the moo his artificial intelligence course signed up um 160,000 students he founded Udacity he was off and running we were going to revolutionized education as you probably know Sebastian thrun has since changed his view four months ago in what he calls a pivot and what his critics call recanting he said it actually didn't work very well it worked fairly well for some students the motivated students but the unmotivated students didn't finish about 90% of the people who start a moo don't finish we also have a category of students that I call unprepared whether they're motivated or not when they get to campus they're just not ready usually because they come from a mediocre or Worse public school system or they have no family structure that supports education unprepared students even if they finished thruns courses failed so muks are not the solution except for uh except for highly motivated students we have to find a way to motivate students and and I confess I'm not sure how we're going to do it but if we don't do it Market realities will motivate them usually uh after the fact and very harshly okay here are my suggestions of things we have to do I think we all have to work harder everybody in the ation must work harder students must work harder they must read much more and we must make sure that happens if we give them passing grades they must write more papers which means people are going to have to grade those papers carefully and I admit that's painful work and I am very terrible at it uh faculty are going to have to work harder faculty are probably going to have to redefine their workload so it's not half research and half teaching they're going to probably have to teach under graduates more they're probably going to have to teach small groups of undergraduates so they develop the skills of talking face to face uh academic administrators should be in the classroom all of them they should all be teaching now I'm I mean we're at a university where the president teaches each semester so it's a fairly safe thing to say but the reality is there are all kinds of vice presidents Deans Vice provos I believe every administrator should be in the classroom because that will remind them that the business of the University isn't business it's education I think most administrators should be academics we may need a few people who are experts in financial Administration we may need a skilled attorney be the general counil but most of the staff activities that are performed at universities should be performed by academics because again they will understand the mission of the place is education they're in the trenches that's just the reality I go to so many meetings where higher education is described as an industry and everybody talks about our business model and our Revenue stream I personally believe that is unbelievably wrong making education a bus a business is going to work just about as well as having Health Care serve as a business okay the reality is I don't think we should have a business model we should have a university model students aren't customers they're students okay I understand in our time it's not going to be popular to say everybody needs to work harder so I want to I want to acknowledge that that applies to all of us you if you're an American National we're descended from people who worked really hard you know the Pioneers the immigrants who settled the continent the people who survived slavery or the Native Americans who survived whatever that was I mean the reality is we're descended from people who worked hard so if we're going to tell our students they must work harder we should demonstrate it by working harder ourselves so here's my proposal everybody in the room who's not an engineer or scientist or math major when you go home tonight should register on KH Academy and begin to study math working your way up to calculus or alternatively learning how to write code so you can program all the engineers scientists and math majors in the room when you go home you should read The Iliad alternatively you could listen to Mozart I I guess people today who have to multitask could do both okay what I'm going to do quite literally is I'm going to go home tonight and I'm going to grade papers w

## 14. WHY YOU HAVE TO FAIL TO HAVE A GREAT CAREER: MICHAEL LITT AT TEDXUW

hey guys I'm here today to talk to you about the f word uh you've all said it you probably said it earlier today once or twice if you're me maybe 20 times uh you've probably said it to your friends your friends have said it to you uh you'd be surprised if youve said it to your parents your parents have said it to you and this academic institution that we're sitting in today has taught you to fear it that word is in fact f u n Fun that was a good one um I'm glad you guys are interactive so in all honesty today I'm actually talking to you about failure that was kind of given in the preemptive um failure is a terrible thing everybody experiences it you will experience it you experience it academically career-wise so I did what any good speaker who hasn't really done much speaking would do and I googled the word and I was going to do a definition thing but everybody hates those and so I did something else I found there was 543 million data points on the internet's about failure that's a lot of numbers and Google found that for me in about 0.23 seconds that's a lot of information very fast people obviously care about failure so I pretended that I was an alien from outer space and I was coming to Earth after a nuclear apocalypse and the only thing left was Mother Google servers and I had to piece together humanity and so I Googled failure and I found this it's an epic fail I found this it's an absolutely epic fail this guy it hurts and finally the most epic fail of all and so I thought about what this would mean to society in all honesty that's not what my talk is about my talk is about the fact that you will fail to have a great career and this obviously pulls on a fantastic txw talk of past from Larry Smith and his talk was deserves Applause and his talk was you will fail to have a great career unless and in typical Larry fashion he left unless as this loow hanging fruit and it was dang in front of you and all you had to do is reach out and grab it but you really didn't know what it was and he left it to you to make your own conclusions I'm an engineer and I want to make it easier for you to understand what that unless is through my own experiences so this is an optical illusion you've all seen this optical illusion before and you know what to think about optical illusions so which line is longer yell it out yell it out the top one right okay so everybody's saying that it is the same at least most people are saying it's the same you're trained okay you're trained to believe that these lines are actually the same and some of you are smart and should keep your mouth shut I'm just kidding um but you're taught to believe that they're actually the same length it's an optical illusion I must be tricking you therefore they're the same length because I asked you which line is longer so those of you that yelled out the same you're actually wrong because I changed it the top line is longer and so those of you who are like the same the same you probably feel a little foolish cuz the guy next to you who thought it but didn't say it is now just chilling and he's like that's right and if you're Malcolm you love it because you got it right and you somehow can calculate distances with your brain um but that feeling you have inside of you right now is the feeling of failure you shouldn't have shut it out you shouldn't have commented you shouldn't have made that step you shouldn't have followed your gut instinct and you'll learn from that and what I want to teach you is how to learn from that and so story time in secondy year university I started a company called lit energies that is not a jar of my urine that is a jar of biodiesel and my brother and I wanted to produce biodiesel in GF and sell it to companies all over the world but mostly in Canada petrochem petrochemical companies had not committed to producing biodiesel yet and the greater Transit the greater transit authority of the greater Toronto area GTA squared was going to be buying biodiesel from small producers because the government wanted all fleets to run biodiesel so I traveled all over Southwestern Ontario with this little jar of biodiesel trying to sell it to these companies and we needed to sell 5 million lers of biodiesel or to raise $5 million in cash to build this refinery in galf it was a lofty goal and this one particular incident and this is the actual jar I kept it in my glove box and it was a very cold January day and the fear around biodiesel specifically in Canada is that it freezes at a temperature that's higher than regular diesel fuel that's a big issue in a cold climate my car was old it didn't have a heating core I was running it on 1% biodiesel to make a point could barely started in the morning and I drove all the way to Toronto with this jar of biodiesel in the glove box I was 10 minutes early and this was a meeting with the greater transit authority of the greater Toronto area big meeting 42 floor get out of my car 10 minutes early reach into the glove box and I find a biodiesel popsicle and you can imagine how difficult this sale was going to be because you need to have a product like this that's tangible for people to buy into it especially when there's fear so I pull out this Popsicle which is now leaking on me and I get into the elevator 42 floors 2 and 1/2 minutes feels like 18 years and I rub this jar between my legs this is the feeling of failure so I get to the floor I check in my hands are shaking I go to the bathroom I open the top and I hold it underneath the hand dryer 2 and a half minutes feels like 18 years and I start to see it slowly Tha I go sit in the waiting room I find a vent on the floor I put my bag on top of the vent and I'm believing that this vent is going to melt the biodiesel and I'm watching it I'm watching it and the lady behind the counter sees me looking at my bag and she's probably worried that I've got like a bomb or a weapon in there meeting gets delayed probably because of that and I finally go in the room and so everybody knew I had this jar everybody wanted to see it and what I would do is I'd pour it into a wine glass people could touch it feel it I wouldn't touch the stuff myself um some guys would drink it because they believed in the capabilities of this product have the meeting where's the biod we really want to see it because we had produce this ourselves in our garage I have it but let's talk about the environmental implications of the product for a little while longer where's the biod we want to see it I have it but let's talk about being a a clean feet a green Fleet for Canada finally I could no longer wait and I looked into the bag and I saw this wonderfully clear golden liquid and it had Tha and I reached in pulled it out uprighted it and thk 80% ice and that was the end of the meeting and that feeling is a feeling a failure and I remember instinctively thinking to myself which is a comical thought that I was literally selling ice to Eskimos and it could have been more true we failed to build lead energies it was not a success not only did we fail to build lit energies but this was my second year at University this is even before the two3 point 2A wasn't even to be or not to be I tried to build this business and I failed that term in school as well and so if you can imagine you start a business you're crazy everybody thinks you're insane and they all think that you're going to fail and then you fail your term in school and all the people that thought you're going to fail now rubbing in because your friends are moving on in Academia and you've got a year of your life with nothing to do because your business failed there's no way to sell this product there's no money from investors and you don't even have an academic career so I did what everybody else does and I went and worked at a big software company in town and I learned how to write code and I bettered myself through the process but digging myself up from that wall dusting myself off and moving forward was very very difficult again my best friends in the world were no longer going to be going through an education with me and I watched as they did I learned from that and so I have another optical illusion which line is longer the difference is that everybody's a lot quieter because I told you that you failed the first time and that's the wrong lesson to learn even though you were wrong and I still hear people mumbling it doesn't even matter and I'm not going to tell you the answer and if you find me after I can show you but you should still still be willing to shout something out even if you're wrong who cares what that guy next to you thinks who cares what your friends think who cares what your parents think you will fail to have a great career unless you fail to have a great career it's an oxy and it's ridiculous but it makes sense right so again you will fail to have a great career unless you fail to have a great career don't listen to your friends don't listen to your parents parents don't listen to academic institutions that make you fear the concept of failure failing that academic ter term and failing at building lit energies was the best thing that ever happened to me if you want to find out more about that I'll stick around and talk to you about it remember be somebody or be somebody's fool thank you

## 15. HOW DO WE HEAL MEDICINE? | ATUL GAWANDE

I got my start in writing and research as a surgical trainee, as someone who was a long ways away from becoming any kind of an expert at anything. So the natural question you ask then at that point is, how do I get good at what I'm trying to do? And it became a question of, how do we all get good at what we're trying to do? It's hard enough to learn to get the skills, try to learn all the material you have to absorb at any task you're taking on. I had to think about how I sew and how I cut, but then also how I pick the right person to come to an operating room. And then in the midst of all this came this new context for thinking about what it meant to be good. In the last few years we realized we were in the deepest crisis of medicine's existence due to something you don't normally think about when you're a doctor concerned with how you do good for people, which is the cost of health care. There's not a country in the world that now is not asking whether we can afford what doctors do. The political fight that we've developed has become one around whether it's the government that's the problem or is it insurance companies that are the problem. And the answer is yes and no; it's deeper than all of that. The cause of our troubles is actually the complexity that science has given us. And in order to understand this, I'm going to take you back a couple of generations. I want to take you back to a time when Lewis Thomas was writing in his book, "The Youngest Science." Lewis Thomas was a physician-writer, one of my favorite writers. And he wrote this book to explain, among other things, what it was like to be a medical intern at the Boston City Hospital in the pre-penicillin year of 1937. It was a time when medicine was cheap and very ineffective. If you were in a hospital, he said, it was going to do you good only because it offered you some warmth, some food, shelter, and maybe the caring attention of a nurse. Doctors and medicine made no difference at all. That didn't seem to prevent the doctors from being frantically busy in their days, as he explained. What they were trying to do was figure out whether you might have one of the diagnoses for which they could do something. And there were a few. You might have a lobar pneumonia, for example, and they could give you an antiserum, an injection of rabid antibodies to the bacterium streptococcus, if the intern sub-typed it correctly. If you had an acute congestive heart failure, they could bleed a pint of blood from you by opening up an arm vein, giving you a crude leaf preparation of digitalis and then giving you oxygen by tent. If you had early signs of paralysis and you were really good at asking personal questions, you might figure out that this paralysis someone has is from syphilis, in which case you could give this nice concoction of mercury and arsenic -- as long as you didn't overdose them and kill them. Beyond these sorts of things, a medical doctor didn't have a lot that they could do. This was when the core structure of medicine was created -- what it meant to be good at what we did and how we wanted to build medicine to be. It was at a time when what was known you could know, you could hold it all in your head, and you could do it all. If you had a prescription pad, if you had a nurse, if you had a hospital that would give you a place to convalesce, maybe some basic tools, you really could do it all. You set the fracture, you drew the blood, you spun the blood, looked at it under the microscope, you plated the culture, you injected the antiserum. This was a life as a craftsman. As a result, we built it around a culture and set of values that said what you were good at was being daring, at being courageous, at being independent and self-sufficient. Autonomy was our highest value. Go a couple generations forward to where we are, though, and it looks like a completely different world. We have now found treatments for nearly all of the tens of thousands of conditions that a human being can have. We can't cure it all. We can't guarantee that everybody will live a long and healthy life. But we can make it possible for most. But what does it take? Well, we've now discovered 4,000 medical and surgical procedures. We've discovered 6,000 drugs that I'm now licensed to prescribe. And we're trying to deploy this capability, town by town, to every person alive -- in our own country, let alone around the world. And we've reached the point where we've realized, as doctors, we can't know it all. We can't do it all by ourselves. There was a study where they looked at how many clinicians it took to take care of you if you came into a hospital, as it changed over time. And in the year 1970, it took just over two full-time equivalents of clinicians. That is to say, it took basically the nursing time and then just a little bit of time for a doctor who more or less checked in on you once a day. By the end of the 20th century, it had become more than 15 clinicians for the same typical hospital patient -- specialists, physical therapists, the nurses. We're all specialists now, even the primary care physicians. Everyone just has a piece of the care. But holding onto that structure we built around the daring, independence, self-sufficiency of each of those people has become a disaster. We have trained, hired and rewarded people to be cowboys. But it's pit crews that we need, pit crews for patients. There's evidence all around us: 40 percent of our coronary artery disease patients in our communities receive incomplete or inappropriate care. 60 percent of our asthma, stroke patients receive incomplete or inappropriate care. Two million people come into hospitals and pick up an infection they didn't have because someone failed to follow the basic practices of hygiene. Our experience as people who get sick, need help from other people, is that we have amazing clinicians that we can turn to -- hardworking, incredibly well-trained and very smart -- that we have access to incredible technologies that give us great hope, but little sense that it consistently all comes together for you from start to finish in a successful way. There's another sign that we need pit crews, and that's the unmanageable cost of our care. Now we in medicine, I think, are baffled by this question of cost. We want to say, "This is just the way it is. This is just what medicine requires." When you go from a world where you treated arthritis with aspirin, that mostly didn't do the job, to one where, if it gets bad enough, we can do a hip replacement, a knee replacement that gives you years, maybe decades, without disability, a dramatic change, well is it any surprise that that $40,000 hip replacement replacing the 10-cent aspirin is more expensive? It's just the way it is. But I think we're ignoring certain facts that tell us something about what we can do. As we've looked at the data about the results that have come as the complexity has increased, we found that the most expensive care is not necessarily the best care. And vice versa, the best care often turns out to be the least expensive -- has fewer complications, the people get more efficient at what they do. And what that means is there's hope. Because [if] to have the best results, you really needed the most expensive care in the country, or in the world, well then we really would be talking about rationing who we're going to cut off from Medicare. That would be really our only choice. But when we look at the positive deviants -- the ones who are getting the best results at the lowest costs -- we find the ones that look the most like systems are the most successful. That is to say, they found ways to get all of the different pieces, all of the different components, to come together into a whole. Having great components is not enough, and yet we've been obsessed in medicine with components. We want the best drugs, the best technologies, the best specialists, but we don't think too much about how it all comes together. It's a terrible design strategy actually. There's a famous thought experiment that touches exactly on this that said, what if you built a car from the very best car parts? Well it would lead you to put in Porsche brakes, a Ferrari engine, a Volvo body, a BMW chassis. And you put it all together and what do you get? A very expensive pile of junk that does not go anywhere. And that is what medicine can feel like sometimes. It's not a system. Now a system, however, when things start to come together, you realize it has certain skills for acting and looking that way. Skill number one is the ability to recognize success and the ability to recognize failure. When you are a specialist, you can't see the end result very well. You have to become really interested in data, unsexy as that sounds. One of my colleagues is a surgeon in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and he got interested in the question of, well how many CT scans did they do for their community in Cedar Rapids? He got interested in this because there had been government reports, newspaper reports, journal articles saying that there had been too many CT scans done. He didn't see it in his own patients. And so he asked the question, "How many did we do?" and he wanted to get the data. It took him three months. No one had asked this question in his community before. And what he found was that, for the 300,000 people in their community, in the previous year they had done 52,000 CT scans. They had found a problem. Which brings us to skill number two a system has. Skill one, find where your failures are. Skill two is devise solutions. I got interested in this when the World Health Organization came to my team asking if we could help with a project to reduce deaths in surgery. The volume of surgery had spread around the world, but the safety of surgery had not. Now our usual tactics for tackling problems like these are to do more training, give people more specialization or bring in more technology. Well in surgery, you couldn't have people who are more specialized and you couldn't have people who are better trained. And yet we see unconscionable levels of death, disability that could be avoided. And so we looked at what other high-risk industries do. We looked at skyscraper construction, we looked at the aviation world, and we found that they have technology, they have training, and then they have one other thing: They have checklists. I did not expect to be spending a significant part of my time as a Harvard surgeon worrying about checklists. And yet, what we found were that these were tools to help make experts better. We got the lead safety engineer for Boeing to help us. Could we design a checklist for surgery? Not for the lowest people on the totem pole, but for the folks who were all the way around the chain, the entire team including the surgeons. And what they taught us was that designing a checklist to help people handle complexity actually involves more difficulty than I had understood. You have to think about things like pause points. You need to identify the moments in a process when you can actually catch a problem before it's a danger and do something about it. You have to identify that this is a before-takeoff checklist. And then you need to focus on the killer items. An aviation checklist, like this one for a single-engine plane, isn't a recipe for how to fly a plane, it's a reminder of the key things that get forgotten or missed if they're not checked. So we did this. We created a 19-item two-minute checklist for surgical teams. We had the pause points immediately before anesthesia is given, immediately before the knife hits the skin, immediately before the patient leaves the room. And we had a mix of dumb stuff on there -- making sure an antibiotic is given in the right time frame because that cuts the infection rate by half -- and then interesting stuff, because you can't make a recipe for something as complicated as surgery. Instead, you can make a recipe for how to have a team that's prepared for the unexpected. And we had items like making sure everyone in the room had introduced themselves by name at the start of the day, because you get half a dozen people or more who are sometimes coming together as a team for the very first time that day that you're coming in. We implemented this checklist in eight hospitals around the world, deliberately in places from rural Tanzania to the University of Washington in Seattle. We found that after they adopted it the complication rates fell 35 percent. It fell in every hospital it went into. The death rates fell 47 percent. This was bigger than a drug. (Applause) And that brings us to skill number three, the ability to implement this, to get colleagues across the entire chain to actually do these things. And it's been slow to spread. This is not yet our norm in surgery -- let alone making checklists to go onto childbirth and other areas. There's a deep resistance because using these tools forces us to confront that we're not a system, forces us to behave with a different set of values. Just using a checklist requires you to embrace different values from the ones we've had, like humility, discipline, teamwork. This is the opposite of what we were built on: independence, self-sufficiency, autonomy. I met an actual cowboy, by the way. I asked him, what was it like to actually herd a thousand cattle across hundreds of miles? How did you do that? And he said, "We have the cowboys stationed at distinct places all around." They communicate electronically constantly, and they have protocols and checklists for how they handle everything -- (Laughter) -- from bad weather to emergencies or inoculations for the cattle. Even the cowboys are pit crews now. And it seemed like time that we become that way ourselves. Making systems work is the great task of my generation of physicians and scientists. But I would go further and say that making systems work, whether in health care, education, climate change, making a pathway out of poverty, is the great task of our generation as a whole. In every field, knowledge has exploded, but it has brought complexity, it has brought specialization. And we've come to a place where we have no choice but to recognize, as individualistic as we want to be, complexity requires group success. We all need to be pit crews now. Thank you. (Applause)
